titre : Google creates new AI division to challenge OpenAI
resume :Google has consolidated its AI research labs, Google Brain and DeepMind, into a new unit named Google DeepMind.
contenu : 
    e creates new AI division to challenge OGooglpenAI + 
    Google has consolidated its AI research labs, Google Brain and DeepMind, into a new unit named Google DeepMind. +
The move is seen as a strategic way for Google to maintain its edge in the competitive AI industry and compete with OpenAI. 
By combining the talent and resources of both entities, Google DeepMind aims to accelerate AI advancements while maintaining ethical standards.





titre : Palantir demos how AI can be used in the military
resume : Palantir has demonstrated how AI can be used for national defense and other military purposes.
contenu : 
    Palantir demos how AI can be used in the military + 
   Palantir has demonstrated how AI can be used for national defense and other military purposes. +
The use of AI in the military is highly controversial. In this context, Large Language Models (LLMs) and algorithms must be implemented as ethically as possible.
Palantir believes that’s where its AI Platform (AIP) comes in. AIP offers cutting-edge AI capabilities and claims to ensure that the use of LLMs and AI in the military
context is guided by ethical principles.






titre : Google will test a more AI-enhanced search next month
resume : Google is set to publicly test a more deeply AI-enhanced search engine next month as it attempts to counter Bing’s increasing adoption
contenu : 
    Google will test a more AI-enhanced search next month + 
    Google is set to publicly test a more deeply AI-enhanced search engine next month as it attempts to counter Bing’s increasing adoption +
Earlier this year, Microsoft enhanced its Bing search engine with OpenAI’s GPT. The release reportedly set off alarm bells at Google due to the risks it poses to its core search and advertising business.
Google has been working on its own AI-powered features for its search engine under a project codenamed Magi, according to a report citing internal documents.




titre : OpenAI is not currently training GPT-5
resume : Experts calling for a pause on AI development will be glad to hear that OpenAI isn’t currently training GPT-5.
contenu : 
    OpenAI is not currently training GPT-5 + 
    Experts calling for a pause on AI development will be glad to hear that OpenAI isn’t currently training GPT-5. +
OpenAI CEO Sam Altman spoke remotely at an MIT event and was quizzed about AI by computer scientist and podcaster Lex Fridman.
Altman confirmed that OpenAI is not currently developing a fifth version of its Generative Pre-trained Transformer model and is instead focusing on enhancing the capabilities of GPT-4, the latest version.




titre : Arvind Jain, Glean: On using AI to surface knowledge
resume : Rapid advancements in AI are heralding a new generation of powerful tools—including the ability to quickly surface knowledge across a business.
contenu : 
    Arvind Jain, Glean: On using AI to surface knowledge + 
    Rapid advancements in AI are heralding a new generation of powerful tools—including the ability to quickly surface knowledge across a business. +
Glean, a firm established by Google search engineers and other industry veterans, possesses considerable expertise in this area.
AI News caught up with Arvind Jain, CEO and Founder of Glean, to hear more about how the company is using AI to surface workplace 
knowledge and supercharge productivity.




titre : Alibaba unveils ChatGPT rival and custom LLMs
resume : Chinese tech giant Alibaba has unveiled a ChatGPT rival and the ability to create custom LLMs (Large Language Models) for customers.
contenu : 
    Alibaba unveils ChatGPT rival and custom LLMs + 
    Chinese tech giant Alibaba has unveiled a ChatGPT rival and the ability to create custom LLMs (Large Language Models) for customers. +
    Alibaba’s ChatGPT rival is called Tongyi Qianwen and will be integrated across the company’s various businesses in the “near future,” but it is yet to give a rollout timeline.




titre : Biden: AI can help with difficult challenges, but risks must be addressed
resume : President Biden believes that AI can help solve some of the world’s most difficult challenges, but says that risks to society, the economy, and national security must be addressed.
contenu : 
    Biden: AI can help with difficult challenges, but risks must be addressed + 
    President Biden believes that AI can help solve some of the world’s most difficult challenges, but says that risks to society, the economy, and national security must be addressed. +
    In a meeting on Tuesday with the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, President Biden said that “AI can help deal with some very difficult challenges like disease and climate change, 
    but we also have to address the potential risks to our society, to our economy, to our national security.”





titre : AI think tank calls GPT-4 a risk to public safety
resume : An AI think tank has filed a complaint with the FTC in a bid to stop OpenAI from further commercial deployments of GPT-4.
contenu : 
    AI think tank calls GPT-4 a risk to public safety + 
    An AI think tank has filed a complaint with the FTC in a bid to stop OpenAI from further commercial deployments of GPT-4. +
    The Center for Artificial Intelligence and Digital Policy (CAIDP) claims OpenAI has violated section five of the FTC Act—alleging the company of deceptive and unfair practices.
    Marc Rotenberg, Founder and President of the CAIDP, said:
    “The FTC has a clear responsibility to investigate and prohibit unfair and deceptive trade practices. We believe that the FTC should look closely at OpenAI and GPT-4.
    We are specifically asking the FTC to determine whether the company has complied with the guidance the federal agency has issued.”
    The CAIDP claims that OpenAI’s GPT-4 is “biased, deceptive, and a risk to privacy and public safety”.





titre : Clearview AI used by US police for almost 1M searches
resume : Facial recognition firm Clearview AI has revealed that it has run almost a million searches for US police.
contenu : 
    Clearview AI used by US police for almost 1M searches + 
    Facial recognition firm Clearview AI has revealed that it has run almost a million searches for US police. +
Facial recognition technology is a controversial topic, and for good reason. Clearview AI’s technology allows law enforcement to upload a photo of a suspect’s face and find matches in a database of billions of images it has collected.
Clearview AI CEO Hoan Ton-That disclosed in an interview with the BBC that the firm has scraped 30 billion images from platforms such as Facebook. The images were taken without the users’ permission.



titre : Mozilla.ai picks up OpenAI’s founding mission
resume : Mozilla’s new startup will build “trustworthy” AI that benefits humanity. If that sounds familiar, it was OpenAI’s founding mission.
contenu : 
    Mozilla.ai picks up OpenAI’s founding mission + 
    Mozilla’s new startup will build “trustworthy” AI that benefits humanity. If that sounds familiar, it was OpenAI’s founding mission. +
    The startup, Mozilla.ai, aims to create an independent and open-source AI ecosystem that addresses society’s most pressing concerns about the rapidly-advancing technology.




titre : Microsoft lays off AI ethics team 
resume : Microsoft has laid off a team dedicated to ensuring the responsible development and deployment of AI.
contenu : 
    Microsoft lays off AI ethics team  + 
    Microsoft has laid off a team dedicated to ensuring the responsible development and deployment of AI. +
Platformer reports the ethics and society team were laid off as part of wider cuts to Microsoft’s workforce. However, the decision leaves Microsoft with fewer experts working to ensure solutions are safe and have a net positive impact.
The perception of Microsoft as an AI leader has deepened following its exclusive partnership with OpenAI. The duo continue to deliver powerful new AI capabilities across Microsoft’s products.





